---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Craft Shadow Piercing (Item Creation)

You can craft magical piercings infused with the power of _[[items/Armor Magic Abilities/Shadow|shadow]]_.

**Prerequisites:** Craft (_[[items/Mundane/Jewelry|jewelry]]_) 5 ranks, caster level 5th.

**Benefit:** You can create special wondrous items-typically barbs, hooks, rings, and spikes-that adorn piercings in the wearer's flesh and grant magical abilities. Both you and the recipient of the piercing (if not yourself) must be present for the entire piercing process. _Shadow_ piercings must be placed in a part of the body normally associated with a magic item slot, but they do not take up a slot on the body, nor interfere with other magic items that use those slots. A single slot can only hold one _shadow_ piercing (nonmagical piercings do not count against this limit). _Shadow_ piercings can be applied to the following slots: belt, body, chest, eyes, feet, hands, head, neck, shoulder, and wrist. A single slot can hold multiple physical piercings, though the pieces of _jewelry_ operate as a single item and must be created for that purpose. _Shadow_ piercings have different levels of power: minor, major, and greater. Minor _shadow_ piercings usually include one piece of _jewelry_, while major and greater _shadow_ piercings often are made up of multiple rings and spikes that cover the entire area of the piercing's slot (but are still considered a single item). A creature can only use a number of _shadow_ piercings equal its Constitution modifier plus its Wisdom modifier. Carefully inserting or removing a _shadow_ piercing takes a full-round action and deals no damage. Alternatively, a _shadow_ piercing may be pulled out of a creature using the steal maneuver as a standard action that deals 1d6 points of damage. Only a creature with the _[[feats/Craft _Shadow_ Piercing|Craft _Shadow_ Piercing]]_ feat may create or insert a _shadow_ piercing, but any creature may remove one. Inserting a _shadow_ piercing is impossible unless the target is willing or _[[conditions/Helpless|helpless]]_. After being removed, a _shadow_ piercing may be inserted into another creature by someone with this feat. Since they are treated as magic items, they are affected by _[[spells/Dispel Magic|dispel magic]]_. _Shadow_ piercings follow the rules for magic item creation, except the creator can use the Craft (_jewelry_) skill instead of Spellcraft. New _shadow_ piercings can be researched and designed using the rules for pricing new magic items. _Shadow_ piercing powers for a specific slot must be thematically similar or linked. Since _shadow_ piercings don't interfere with other magic items in the same slot, but can only have one piercing per slot, the base price is multiplied by 1.5 instead of doubled as if they had no space limitation.

**Source** Champions Of Corruption