---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Elongated Cranium

You have undergone the painful and ancient art of cranial _[[spells/Binding|binding]]_, deforming your skull to unlock the hidden potential of your _[[classes/Psychic|psychic]]_ self.

**Benefit:** Your cranium has been tightly bound with boards and wrappings to change its shape and attune your mind to your _psychic_ discipline. If you take this feat after 1st level, you must undergo a painful 6-month regimen of increased tightening and head _binding_, during which you take a -1 penalty on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma checks and on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma-based skill checks. Once the _binding_ is completed, your skull takes on one of three shapes of your choosing, each with a specific benefit. Once chosen, this shape cannot be changed. Fronto-Occipital Elongation: Your head slopes severely in a high conical shape, tapering from your brow to the crown of your head. You take a -1 penalty on Intelligence and Wisdom checks and on Intelligence- and Wisdom-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Charisma checks and Charisma-based skill checks. In addition, once per day, you can extend the duration of a _psychic_ spell you cast by 50% (minimum 0 additional rounds). The increased duration doesn't stack with the increase granted by the _[[feats/Extend Spell|Extend Spell]]_ feat. Ovoid _[[universal monster rules/Compression|Compression]]_: Your head takes on a larger, more bulbous appearance than normal. You take a -1 penalty on Charisma and Wisdom checks and on Wisdom- and Charisma-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Intelligence checks and Intelligence-based skill checks. In addition, once per day you can cast one _[[universal monster rules/Psychic Magic|psychic magic]]_ spell you know with a +1 bonus to its caster level. Sagittal Elongation: Your head slopes back in a gentle, elongated curve. You take a -1 penalty on Intelligence and Charisma checks and on Intelligence- and Charisma-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Wisdom checks and Wisdom-based skill checks. In addition, once per day, you can increase the DC of a _psychic_ spell you cast by 1.

**Source** Occult Adventures