---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Gray Maiden Initiate

You were selected for indoctrination into the _[[monsters/Gray|Gray]]_ Maidens and underwent some of the preliminary scarring and conditioning, but Queen Ileosa was defeated before you could fully serve her. You bear the mental and physical scars of your sisters in the _Gray_ Maidens, and while you never had to carry out any of the queen's commands, you feel a strong kinship with those of your sisters who have.

**Prerequisites:** Female, must be taken at 1st level.

**Benefit:** You are affiliated with the _Gray_ Maidens. In addition, choose two of the following benefits to represent the focus of your initial _[[items/Weapon Magic Abilities/Training|training]]_ and indoctrination. Avenging _[[npcs/Knight|Knight]]_: Like the Queens of the Night, you crave _[[feats/Vengeance|vengeance]]_ upon those who have wronged you. You gain a +1 bonus on damage rolls against any creature that dealt damage to you during the previous round. Deeper Indoctrination: Mental conditioning has bolstered your mind against most magical control. You gain a +1 bonus on Will saving throws, except when resisting charm or compulsion effects created by lawful evil creatures, in which case you instead take a -2 penalty on Will saving throws. Faceless Maiden: You can take advantage of the disquieting nature of the iconic armor of the _Gray_ Maidens. While wearing _[[items/Armor/Gray maiden plate|Gray Maiden plate]]_, you gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks. _[[npcs/Gray Maiden|Gray Maiden]]_ Adept: You had some magical skill before being recruited and learned to cast spells despite the restrictive armor you were forced to wear. The arcane spell failure chance of _Gray Maiden plate_ you wear is reduced by 5%._Gray Maiden_ _[[feats/Endurance|Endurance]]_: Surviving the brutal process of becoming a _Gray Maiden_ taught you to endure more pain than others. You gain 2 hit points and can sleep while wearing _Gray Maiden_ armor without becoming _[[conditions/Fatigued|fatigued]]_. Korvosan Acceptance: With the aid of the Scarlet Rose, you've successfully reintegrated into Korvosan society. You gain a +1 bonus on Diplomacy and Knowledge (local) checks, and one of these skills (your choice) is a class skill for you. Scarred: Your face was horribly scarred during _Gray Maiden_ initiation, destroying your beauty. You take a -1 penalty on Diplomacy and Disguise checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks and on saving throws against pain effects (Pathfinder RPG Ultimate Magic 138). Tamed and _[[conditions/Broken|Broken]]_: You reach your full potential only when magically compelled. Whenever you are under the effects of an enemy's compulsion spell, you gain a number of temporary hit points equal to the spell's level. These temporary hit points last for the duration of the spell effect.

**Special:** This feat is unaffiliated; a creature need not be affiliated with the _Gray_ Maidens to select this feat.

**Source** Adventurer's Guide