---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Holy Water Assault (Combat)

You have found new and effective uses for _[[items/Mundane/Holy water|holy water]]_ in combating the undead.

**Prerequisites:** Base attack bonus +1, Knowledge (religion) 3 ranks.

**Benefit:** In addition to _holy water_'s normal uses, you can use _holy water_ to create a variety of other effects, which are listed below. To use _holy water_ in a particular way, you must meet the additional requirements of that effect, such as a particular feat, ranks in a specific skill, or the ability to cast a certain spell (specified after the effect's name). Unless otherwise specified, using any of these abilities consumes one vial of _holy water_. _[[items/Armor Magic Abilities/Blinding|Blinding]]_ Water (_[[feats/Improved Precise Shot|Improved Precise Shot]]_): By uttering a short _[[spells/Prayer|prayer]]_ as swift action, you can empower a _vial_ of _holy water_ with _[[feats/Blinding Light|blinding light]]_. If you successfully throw that _vial_ of _holy water_ and land a direct hit against an undead creature by the end of your next turn, the target takes damage from the _holy water_ as normal and also becomes _[[conditions/Blinded|blinded]]_ (Ref lex DC 13 negates blindness). This even affects creatures that do not have eyes such as skeletons, but not creatures that don't rely on _[[spells/Vision|vision]]_. Concentrate _Holy Water_ (Craft [alchemy] 4 ranks): Through alchemical processes, you can refine multiple doses of _holy water_ into a single hyperpotent dose. To do so, you must possess two or more flasks of _holy water_ and you must succeed at a Craft (alchemy) check that takes 10 minutes of uninterrupted time. The DC of the Craft (alchemy) check is equal to 15 + 2 x the number of doses of _holy water_ you are combining. For example, combining three flasks of _holy water_ would require a successful DC 21 Craft (alchemy) check. Success means you combine all of the doses into a single concentrated _[[items/Mundane/Flask|flask]]_ of _holy water_. If you fail the check by 4 or less, the distillation process failed and must be tried again. If you fail the check by 5 or more, the distillation process failed and all of the doses of _holy water_ are wasted. The maximum number of doses of _holy water_ you can combine is equal to half the number of ranks you possess in Craft (alchemy). A direct hit with a _flask_ of concentrated _holy water_ deals 2d4 points of damage + 2 points of damage x the number of doses of _holy water_ used to an undead creature or an evil outsider. Undead creatures and evil outsiders within 5 feet of where the _flask_ hits take 1 point of damage + 1 point of damage x the number of doses of _holy water_ used. For example, a _flask_ of concentrated _holy water_ made of 3 doses of _holy water_ would deal 2d4+6 points of damage on a direct hit, and 4 points of damage to undead creatures and evil outsiders within 5 feet of the target. Healing Glyph (ability to cast _[[spells/Glyph Of Warding|glyph of warding]]_): You can replace the diamond material component in a _glyph of warding_ spell with a _vial_ of _holy water_. When you do so, you must place a spell glyph containing a conjuration (healing) spell of 3rd level or lower, which can be designed to benefit allies or _[[spells/Harm|harm]]_ undead. Healing Water (_[[spells/Heal|Heal]]_ 5 ranks): You can use _holy water_ for curative purposes. When you pour a _vial_ of _holy water_ over your hands, you gain a +4 bonus on _Heal_ checks to perform first aid, treat wounds, treat poison, or treat disease in the next hour. Additionally, once per day you can drink a _vial_ of _holy water_ to _heal_ yourself of 1d8 points of damage. Holy Circle (ability to cast _[[spells/Magic Circle against Evil|magic circle against evil]]_): You can replace the silver material component of a _magic circle against evil_ spell with a _vial_ of _holy water_. When you do so, the duration of the spell increases 20 minutes per level instead of 10 minutes, and the Spellcraft DC to add a special diagram to the circle is 15 instead of 20. _Holy Water_ Splash (_[[feats/Point-Blank Shot|Point-Blank Shot]]_): When you throw a _flask_ of _holy water_, creatures in the area of the _holy water_'s splash radius take 1 additional point of damage as long as they are within 30 feet of you. This ability does not stack with other effects that increase the damage dealt to creatures within the splash radius of _holy water_, such as the concentrate _holy water_ ability of this feat or the _[[spells/Empower Holy Water|empower holy water]]_ spell on page 26.

**Source** Undead Slayer's Handbook