---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Kinetic Invocation

You have learned to channel your element's energy into the magic used by traditional spellcasters.

**Prerequisites:** _[[classes/Kineticist|Kineticist]]_ level 1st, _[[feats/Elemental Focus|elemental focus]]_ class feature.

**Benefit:** For each _kineticist_ element to which you have access, you treat all spells associated with that element (see below) as utility wild talents of the listed level, which you can select as normal. Each has a _[[universal monster rules/Burn|burn]]_ cost of 1 unless otherwise noted, and any nonpermanent, non-instantaneous effects end when your _burn_ is removed. Using this wild talent is considered _[[classes/Psychic|psychic]]_ spellcasting (except for the purpose of prerequisites), and you must provide emotion and thought components, as well as material components where appropriate. In addition, some spells are restricted to certain races (as detailed on page 9 of Pathfinder RPG Advanced Race Guide). Your caster level for a spell is equal to your _kineticist_ level, and the save DC for any spell is equal to 10 + the listed level of the spell + your Constitution modifier. At the GM's discretion, other appropriate spells can be added to each element's list. Aether: Etheric shardsOA (5th), instant armorAPG (2nd), kinetic reverberationUC (2nd), protective spiritAPG (3rd), telekinetic chargeUC (4th; 2 _burn_). Air: Air stepACG (2nd), body capacitanceACG (1st), cloak of windsAPG (3rd), cloud shapeARG (4th; self only), _[[spells/Gaseous Form|gaseous form]]_ (3rd), _[[spells/Wind Walk|wind walk]]_ (6th). Earth: _[[items/Armor Magic Abilities/Expeditious|Expeditious]]_ excavationAPG (2nd; 0 _burn_), groundswellARG (2nd), _[[spells/Imprisonment|imprisonment]]_ (9th), rampartAPG (7th), slowing mudACG (4th), _[[spells/Statue|statue]]_ (7th; 0 _burn_; self only), stone shieldARG (1st). Fire: Blessing of the salamanderAPG (5th; self only), boiling bloodUM (2nd), death candleARG (2nd), fury of the sunARG (2nd; 0 _burn_), _[[spells/Hypnotic Pattern|hypnotic pattern]]_ (2nd), _[[spells/Hypnotism|hypnotism]]_ (2nd; 0 _burn_), invigorateAPG (1st). Void: _[[spells/Animate Dead|Animate dead]]_ (3rd), _[[spells/Command Undead|command undead]]_ (2nd), _[[spells/Death Ward|death ward]]_ (4th), _[[spells/Halt Undead|halt undead]]_ (3rd), life channelARG (1st; 0 _burn_; self only), _[[spells/Mind Blank|mind blank]]_ (8th; self only), unliving rageACG (3rd). Water: Fluid formAPG (6th), ride the wavesUM (4th), _[[spells/Silent Image|silent image]]_ (2nd; 0 _burn_), _[[spells/Sleet Storm|sleet storm]]_ (3rd), _[[universal monster rules/Water Breathing|water breathing]]_ (3rd). Wood: _[[spells/Command Plants|Command plants]]_ (4th), fairy ring retreatACG (7th; ends 1 hour after your _burn_ is removed), _[[spells/Goodberry|goodberry]]_ (1st), grove of respiteAPG (4th), lesser _[[spells/Restoration|restoration]]_ (2nd), ward of the seasonARG (3rd).

**Special:** Kineticists with the air affinity, earth affinity, fire affinity, or water affinity racial traits or the air, earth, fire, or water subtypes can select spells of the appropriate element as if they had this feat. Caligni (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 5 66) and _[[monsters/Dhampir|dhampir]]_ (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 2 89) kineticists can select spells of the void element as if they had this feat. _[[monsters/Gathlain|Gathlain]]_ (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 4 122) and _[[monsters/Ghoran|ghoran]]_ (Bestiary 5 119) kineticists can select spells of the wood element as if they had this feat. Such a character must still have access to the appropriate element to select spells this way. At the GM's discretion, this benefit can be expanded to other races.

**Source** Psychic Anthology