---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# Possess Creature

A fiend gains the ability to merge its physical form with another creature's body, spreading its foul influence from within a living vessel.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 20, any evil outsider with 10 or more Hit Dice.

**Benefit:** Once per day, as a full-round action, a fiend can discorporate into a malign presence and target a creature within 15 feet. The creature targeted must succeed at a Will save equal to 10 + half the fiend's Hit Dice + the fiend's Charisma modifier or be possessed (see below). Targets under the effects of _[[spells/Protection From Evil|protection from evil]]_, or related spells, gain a bonus to this save. Should a target succeed at its Will save, the fiend is forced back into its natural form and is _[[conditions/Stunned|stunned]]_ for 1 round. A fiend that successfully possesses a target enters its space and merges with it. While possessing a creature or object, a fiend's body and abilities are unavailable. Once a fiend merges with its target it cannot be harmed until it leaves or is forcibly removed. While possessing a target, a fiend shares the senses of its host and can communicate with it telepathically. A fiend also gains a number of _[[spells/Possession|possession]]_ points per day equal to its total Hit Dice. These points can be spent to utilize special bodily _possession_ actions detailed on the following pages. A fiend may _[[spells/Expend|expend]]_ these points as it pleases, with each _possession_ action taking a full-round action. Each day, the victim of a _possession_ is allowed a new Will save at the original DC to force the possessing fiend to leave its body-objects and areas do not receive daily saves. Should a victim make this save or be killed, the fiend is ejected, retakes its original form in an adjacent space, and is _stunned_ for 1 round. A fiend may not possess a new target for 24 hours after being ejected from a victim. _[[spells/Dispel Evil|Dispel evil]]_ (or _[[spells/Dispel Chaos|dispel chaos]]_ or _[[spells/Dispel Law|dispel law]]_, depending on the fiend) can eject a fiend, but the caster must succeed at a caster level check with a DC equal to 10 + the HD of the possessing fiend + the fiend's Cha modifier. _[[spells/Banishment|Banishment]]_ and _[[spells/Dismissal|dismissal]]_ immediately eject a fiend from a target if it fails to save against the spell.

**Source** AP 28