---
cssclass: [feats]

---
# True Name

Your researches into ancient tomes and your inquisitions of bound spirits have led you to one of the best-hidden secrets of the multiverse: the _[[feats/True Name|true name]]_ of an outsider

**Prerequisites:** You must be at least an 11th-level _[[classes/Wizard|Wizard]]_ to select this discovery.

**Benefit:** Your researches into ancient tomes and your inquisitions of bound spirits have led you to one of the best-hidden secrets of the multiverse: the _true name_ of an outsider-the name that defines the very essence of the creature and that gives the speaker control over the being. This outsider can have no more than 12 Hit Dice. Once per day, you can speak the common name by which the outsider is known, and the outsider travels to you as if you had cast _[[spells/Planar Binding|planar binding]]_ upon it. It must obey you to the best of its ability, without pay or bargaining for its services, for its _[[universal monster rules/Fear|fear]]_ that you might release its _true name_ to the wider world is enough to bring even the most _[[feats/Recalcitrant|recalcitrant]]_ of outsiders to bear. If the creature is within 100 feet, as a move action, you may punish it by deliberately mispronouncing its name, wracking its very essence and giving it the _[[conditions/Sickened|sickened]]_ and _[[conditions/Staggered|staggered]]_ conditions for 1 round (even if the creature is normally immune to these conditions). You cannot use _true name_ in an area of _[[spells/Silence|silence]]_, but the creature does not have to be able to hear you for it to be harmed by the ability. It is in your best interest to call this creature only sparingly, and occasionally reward it in some fashion to mollify its wrath. If you repeatedly fail to offer it a reward appropriate to its type and ethos, the creature may begin plotting ways to destroy the bond between you, whether by creating an accident that will destroy your memory of the name, by plaguing you with nuisances or dangers until you vow never to call on it again, or by actively seeking to destroy you through its own devices or those of an underling. If this creature is of a lawful type and you are violating its ethos, its superiors may even destroy it or you rather than allow you to contaminate their servant further. Worse, they may establish situations where it is necessary for you to _[[universal monster rules/Summon|summon]]_ this outsider, opening gateways to infernal or angelic interference, in order to gain a foothold on the Material Plane. This is a spell-like ability.

**Special:** You may select this discovery multiple times. Each time you select this discovery, it applies to a different, specific outsider. If you select this discovery at 15th level or higher, the creature may have up to 18 Hit Dice and the call acts as greater _planar binding_ instead of _planar binding_.

**Source** Ultimate Magic